Back again at Bryce's Gym. So, we've got
Carl Bruce. He deadlifted 300 kg and
we've had a bunch of discussions after
that. Now, he's brought his fiance,
Isabelle Lorenzi, who's also an
Australian weightlifting record holder.
I was pointing that There she There she
is. Australian record holder. And I told
them both to come in and I asked them
very nicely if we could, in the
background of all of their work,
try and build a deadlift because, you
know, I know you guys want to see it,
but I would love to see what his
potential actually is. So, there was a
lot of discussion that the deadlift bit
of context for you guys. He did 275 kg
in his own gym, just thought he'd have a
play around. And I said to him, "Mate, I
reckon you can do 300 without even
getting stronger. Just change your
stance, change the barbell, do a few
things." Which is exactly what we did a
couple of weeks later in my gym. Some
people commented saying, "You know, in
all fairness, when you look at his 275,
it looks like he had 300." I'm like,
"Correct. That's what I said and that's
what I did." Is we said we don't need I
didn't get him stronger. They're They're
strong. I've been thinking a lot about
that. I thought, "You know what I'd love
to do is just slide in
some accessory deadlifts." So, we spoke
a lot about why weightlifters don't
usually deadlift
in their weightlifting program. And it's
because the amount of weight you can
lift with a deadlift is really, really
heavy. So, it's a lot more fatiguing
than clean and jerk and snatch. Clean
and jerk and snatch, Carl's best is like
210 clean and jerk and snatch was 165
kg. You know, and now we know he's
deadlifted 300 kg. So, it's a lot more
fatiguing and a lot less skill component
compared to the weightlifting movements.
So, I thought, "You know what I'd love
to just introduce it in a way where it's
not super heavy. I give him a variation
of the deadlift, clean up the movement,
so correct all of the little deviations.
There's very small deviation
that he did with the 300 kg deadlift.
Very strong, but still not perfect,
right?
And I thought, "Maybe if I can add that
in to his program, it won't negatively
impact the recovery that's needed for
him to be able to continue to strengthen
his clean and jerk and snatch, which is
his ultimate goal, but also work towards
I hate putting numbers out there. As you
know, we don't like to over-promise and
under-deliver. So, I plan on not
under-delivering.
Is a 320 kg deadlift is what I believe
is achievable for Kyle within about an 8
to 12-week time period.
All right. You You said it before I came
and did it. I'm not promising anything,
but if you say it, let's [__] go for
it.
>> you can.
>> [laughter]
>> I think you can. So, what you're going
to see So, this is how we do it. This is
the first strategy. With program design,
the first exercise of the day is always
what's the most relevant for the
lifter's goal.
>> Yeah. You do your stuff first, right?
So, he's going to come in and do his
main lifts, which is what?
>> I'm going to do the snatch and some
snatch pulls. That's That's my main
thing.
>> So, he's going to do his whole session
and then come into the deadlift in a
fatigued state. And when we say
fatigued, I don't think it's going to be
that fatigued because what weight do you
think you're going to be snatching
today? Probably just 140 kg.
>> Now, I look at that and say, like, great
snatch, of course it is, but but in the
scheme of things, I'd say that's also a
really good warm-up for a heavy
deadlift. So, when it comes to program
design, it's usually the most complex
movement comes first. Now, what's more
complex, a heavy deadlift or a heavy
snatch? Well, it's debatable, depends on
the goal, but I would say from a
technical standpoint, the snatch is more
complex,
but also the way that to plan like like
that's a speed exercise, right? Whereas
deadlift is not a speed exercise, and
speed takes priority. You wouldn't go to
a heavy grinding movement and then try
and be fast after that. You tried to do
that when we did the 300.
>> Okay.
Well, one set and I was like, can I can
I stop? He He did [laughter] He did
heavy 300 kg that I didn't show you on
my video, but then after that he did
snatch work
and he just wasn't having a good
session.
Right? So, so the order is fast stuff
goes first and then heavy grindy stuff
comes second. So, that's the difference
between a weightlifting program and a
and well, powerlifting program you don't
really need to do the speed work, but if
you did, the speed work goes first and
that's what we're doing today. So,
you're going to do your work first.
>> to do my stuff first. And Izzy's also
going to be joining in as well. So, I've
kind of you know, Izzy's got you know,
on a slightly different journey that of
course they're both lifters and they're
you know, different strength levels. So,
what is your plan today? I'm going to do
some snatches, see how it goes. Um and
then we're going to do pulls And how
many reps of snatches and what what
>> for threes and doubles, 90%.
>> Three sets of two on on 90% roughly of a
snatch and that's what you're going to
start with. See, I've never seen you
conventionally deadlift. But either way,
I reckon it'd be really cool if we added
that little component into your program.
Yeah. At the end of the session? Yeah.
You do all your core stuff first and
then I promise you it's not going to
interfere with your strength progression
for what's most important to you.
>> lifts. Which is the Olympic lifts. All
right, I'll start with So, let's do
this. So, we'll go through their stuff
and I'm not going to be the coach for
their stuff. They're the coaches,
they're the experts. So, we're going to
be a fly on the wall for some of their
work. Maybe I can gee them up and get
them excited to go a little bit heavier.
Who knows?
>> [laughter]
>> Who knows what to expect? I don't know
what to expect. But I will be able to
teach you what we're going to do after
that, which my plan
is a paused deficit deadlift with you
know, RPE 7.
Roughly. So, that means kind of like
three reps in reserve. So, that means
it's not super heavy. Paused
conventional deadlift. If you've been
following me for long enough, you'll
know it's one of my favorite deadlift
accessory exercises. Well, how much of a
good exercise is it? Well, Thor
Björnsson's currently doing that
um in preparation for his 515 kg world
deadlift record. So, if it's good enough
for Thor to build his deadlift, it's
good enough for these guys and it's good
enough for you as well.
>> [laughter]
>> So, I'm going to be talking about the
techniques when we get there, but first,
check out some
weightlifting techniques.
So, what have we got here? This is I
believe that's um 75 75 kilos snatch.
Wow.
>> 70 50 kilo bar.
>> 70
My bad.
>> The barbell difference is right?
>> Yeah, yeah.
Okay, good good uh pointing that out.
That's a 15 kg bar. So, have a look at
the stickers here. So, the blue one
here, that's the men's bar which weighs
20 kg and the yellow one there, that's
the women's bar which weighs 15 kg. So,
you just did 70 kg for two pretty
easily. Yeah.
And then um
>> IWF spec barbells. So, this is a barbell
you would use in an Olympic
weightlifting sanctioned competition.
That's where the sticker is. So, that's
where the cost of the barbell comes in.
That little sticker. But, yeah, it's
pretty cool. Very cool.
All right, let's go. 100 kilos snatch.
This one's for you, Bass. Thank you.
Oh!
A muscle snatch.
>> [laughter]
>> No one likes a show-off.
Nah, I'm just kidding. I love a
show-off.
So, that was a That was a muscle snatch
first. That's um just for a little bit
of fun. Yeah, warms the shoulders up a
little bit. A little bit of high perch
if you like that. Good. Good. A little
bit of fun, a little primer. We'll go
120 now. Yeah, let's do it. Let's do it.
Ooh. That old guy over there he did the
100 kg overhead press the other day.
Yes. He followed us. Yeah, yeah. No
warm-up. No warm-up. So, he came in and
uh warming up to the 300. We're just
having a bit of a laugh and he did 100
kg. Uh would you call that a muscle
clean? It was just a muscle clean and
strict press. And strict press, yeah.
With a 100 kilos pounds.
>> Olympic lifting press. I don't know. I
feel like my strict press needs a bit of
work.
I need I need help. I wouldn't say that
cheat is style. I'd say mine is cheat is
style. I've got
Few of my audience have been requesting
an overhead press tutorial from me.
Um maybe we'll see if we can come around
to doing that at some point. strict
press
literal strict strict press 175 kg.
That's incredible. Olympic lifting we
keep it on our shoulders. We sort of do
a little lean back and push through. Not
the traditional press that used to be in
the Olympics, but you know, that speed
component. We're always trying to move
the bar quickly. So, it's hard for us to
just go
Yeah. So, we you know, we take a little
bit of What with mine? Yeah. I call it a
standing bench press. The way that I do
it was actually kind of something that I
learned because I was invited to some
log pressing competitions. Strongman?
Strongman. So, with the log it's 12-in
diameter compared to a barbell. So, with
a barbell you sit here on your you know,
your clavicle or on your front delts and
you push it up. Whereas with a with a
12-in diameter you can't your head's in
the way.
>> How do you even Well, there's a handle
here. And what you need to do you've got
to rest it here. So, you can't you can't
be looking ahead when you're doing it.
You start already leaning back. So,
that's something when I started doing my
strict pressing to complement that I I
thought, you know what? I'm going to use
it the same stance and the same
technique as a
log press. So, I was actually doing it
kind of like a slightly wider stance.
>> Yeah. Slightly leaning back. And just
all I was thinking was I can bench press
this easy. And then I did and I'm just
like, oh, it's coming up. 75. 75 kg.
Nice. He's just getting warm.
He's a bit camera shy. Like that. But
you notice in the Olympic lifts you
know, we're really trying to keep the
bar close to our body and we're
prioritizing speed. You know, there's no
pulling the slack out of the bar when
I'm snatching. It's all positional. So,
this is why I struggled with those cues
that we were doing last week. So, I'm
really excited to experiment We're going
to try and separate it. Yeah. If I can
differentiate between both cues for my
Olympic lifts, but also for my
deadlifting then
320 bro. Yeah, I think so. I think so.
Yeah, for sure.
It's a 120.
120.
Let's go.
Nice. Easy.
Beautiful.
Beautiful. Beautiful.
Nice.
Yeah, good. Easy.
Easy. I find like in the morning
sessions
you got to warm yourself up because
Olympic lifting is so much speed,
flexibility, mobility. So So you get
better as you go. Well, most of we
usually train at night because we're a
bit more fresh. We've walked around a
little bit more steps like that. So
morning sessions, we can still get the
same result. It just takes a little bit
longer. More sets, more reps, get the
body firing, muscles are stronger PM. I
like training in the afternoon. Most
high-level lifters would would do that.
>> When it's competition, you kind of force
yourself to step up. Yeah. And it's like
it's like your nervous system just knows
when it's important.
>> For sure. It just comes. Yeah, exactly.
100% yeah.
For sure. But squatting like strength
movements can hit heavy strength
movements in the Yeah, like give me give
me heavier squats.
No. Everything is hard like speed work
is better in the afternoon. Give me some
squats and pulls in the morning, no
problem. I'll I'll hit the same thing I
hit at night. Okay, I was I was actually
my next question which was the way that
we did the 300 last time was your
morning session. Yeah, but that was fine
cuz it was more of a strength generally
didn't feel fatigued at all. If anything
for the 300 I was reflecting on it. I
didn't really feel like the belt helped
me that much cuz I'm not used to wearing
it. Maybe maybe it did. I don't know. It
was in a new position as well.
>> Yeah, I didn't really feel much benefit.
>> And it wasn't a tight belt. Yeah, maybe
I don't know. But But I don't know. It's
cool. It's exciting. Yeah.
Nice. Yeah.
Yeah, I'll hit a double next set. I'm
just feeling it out. Get that first rep
in. Yeah. Feel Make sure my quads warm.
Yeah. Now we'll go for some sets and
reps, yeah. So, just a bit of confidence
there, you know? I find it really
interesting the differences in
powerlifting and weightlifting, eh?
They're so different. But they have the
same principles like progressive
overload, periodization, volume,
frequency. Maybe a bit more frequency.
>> I see the deadlift, it's like it's like
when people say, "Is that the right
thing?" It's like
there's so many principles that are
exactly the same. Your body position.
>> Yeah.
But there are differences. 80. Easy.
Nice.
Same thing. High pull.
So, you can already see from the first
set to now
Now she's looking
>> a lot warmer. Her speed passing is good.
So, I would say now go 85 cuz your body
looks pretty good. Uh maybe do a double
85 and then maybe a single at 90 and
just kind of go from there, you know?
Same principle like I was saying with
the deadlift last week. Like we know
kind of roughly where we're aiming to
work.
But set yourself those lower sort of
minimums and then just go from there.
Yeah. Yeah. Nice. You know, when I look
at numbers and percentages, I like round
numbers. So, like I love what you're
doing here. It's 143 plates. That makes
sense to me.
But then like, you know, is this doing
I'm not going to say it too loud. Is
this doing 85? To me, that's not a
number. Right. So, it's 90 is the
number. You know, so what's the number?
90? I still say not not really.
>> is like even with 90, right? It's not a
round number in weightlifting cuz
they're using a 15 kilo bar. Like it
doesn't look that smooth. Like 95 for a
female would be two blues. That looks
schmick, right? But then 100 would be
two blues and a and a 2.5. Or or the
clip or the clip. If you put the collar
on, then I guess we're looking smooth,
right?
>> Yeah.
I I think in terms of like the way that
my head's calculating this.
>> Yeah.
The weightlifting bar which is 15 plus
two blues aside plus a clipper side
that's an even 100.
>> Yeah, yeah, I I think the same.
>> That looks real nice. Yeah, I think the
same way.
Are you hinting something?
What are you what are you hinting?
Oh, what's the what's the best snatch
you've seen from a girl here at this
gym?
Um it's not this is it.
>> Okay, so I've already won.
Oh. Nice.
Come on.
Yeah.
All right.
It's a little bit tender. I might leave
it at that but might leave it at that.
Smart. Are you feeling it in your leg?
Little bit.
Saving yourself for dead lifts, I get
it. I get it. I'm nervous too about the
dead lifts. But like that's the most
I've done in like what? A month and a
half? Is that
Yep. Nice.
She's just going to do some singles. Go
up to 90 for one like that. See how we
go. But yeah.
Nice. Yeah.
I wouldn't say I feel amazing today.
>> [laughter]
>> What do you say you feel lazy today?
>> I don't feel amazing.
>> Oh, you don't feel amazing.
>> amazing. I'll go I'll go up but So, if
you go up the next one's 95?
>> Yeah. So, we could make that two blues
aside.
>> Yes, we can. And that'll look pretty.
Let's do that. We'll do that.
>> Because this [__] Yeah, I know it's
annoying. I can see it. You know what I
mean? Look at that. That's
That's just nothing. It's got to look
pretty.
Otherwise it doesn't count.
>> That explains his deadlift technique. Do
you know what I mean?
>> [laughter]
>> You know, [snorts] that's the the right
technique for weightlifting, which is
getting up on his toes and and really
powering through that lockout. And
that's exactly what I believe just
changes the focus a little bit for these
conventional deadlifts.
Not that he does it, but he's going to
start doing it. And those are [snorts]
the things where it's like, I need to
teach him let's not think about that.
So, every time he does a deadlift, he
doesn't do a deadlift, he does a
pull.
Which involves that shrug and getting up
on the toes, cuz that's what they need
to do
with a snatch and clean and well, snatch
and clean not
a joke. Do you know what I mean? Oh,
same thing with the jerk. Yeah, so we
drive to our toes.
>> Yeah.
It's the same thing. It's literally it's
always the same, yeah. Everything up on
the toes.
So, that's all we know. So, when we
don't do that,
we'll be we'll be not so good. You know,
I'm even thinking with this program,
what we could even do, use the stiff
bar. Sure. But then at the same time,
what's the difference like? Well, the
difference is it doesn't bend as much.
So, it's usually So, get this. What a
lot of deadlifters do is phases of stiff
bar work, because what that does is it's
harder. Yeah. Because it doesn't bend as
much.
So, we use that as a tool to to build
our strength when we come to the the
deadlift bar. However, I think I need to
get Kyle familiar with the bend on a on
a deadlift bar. Yeah, I think so.
Uh we might change it around. Would you
use the same bar I did 300 on for if I
went for 320 like with the stiff 100%.
That's a deadlift bar. Okay. All right,
so we got two blues here.
All right, come on his way. Let's go.
Patient extension.
>> [sighs]
>> Oh, no.
Why did it go behind?
>> [laughter]
>> I'll do it again. So, she's still kind
of warming up. Like we're saying before,
the conversation with the like morning
sessions, but like that's well in her
capability. In Olympic lifting generally
speaking, if you lose the bar from
behind, you've got enough strength for
it. Are you going to try it one more
time?
>> Yeah, yeah, it's easy. Should we try it?
Yeah. So, that wasn't a a strength
issue, that was just a precision issue.
It's just stability. Yeah, precision,
that's it. But Like technically it looks
pretty good, just in the position a
little bit shaky. We might say it's the
morning, or we just say do better. Do
better.
>> Do better.
So, you'll attempt that again? Yeah. All
right. Missing from behind means my pull
is good. I usually if I'm missing, yeah.
It's like you said, Seb, it's it's a
precision thing. Yeah. Just being a
little bit more precise.
>> do it again. Do it again. Yeah. So, if
you're going to go for this next
attempt, what's one thing you're going
to focus on to make this rep? My
turnover, punching up faster. So, here,
punching hard like that, yeah.
So, when you catch it, you're thinking
that's a cue punch up. So, Punch up. I
make it
Um
yes and no. Like different cues work for
different lifters. For me, I'm not
really thinking so much about the catch,
I'm thinking more about that aggressive
turn under. So, when I'm here, coming
under aggressively, so I'm pulling under
like that. Some people find punching
helps as well. I've never really had an
issue in the catch, it's more for me
that aggressive
>> When you're saying punching, what are
you talking shoulders or
>> Yeah, like pushing the scapula, pushing
up.
Yeah, like like really exaggerating that
part there. But for me, I like to
exaggerate this part when I'm coming
under, so really tucking my elbows, push
like that. Yeah, so everyone's
different, everyone's got different
cues, but This is 160.
So, that's called a snatch pull? Yep.
And then there's a high pull? Correct.
That's you pull it even higher? A snatch
high pull is the same as a snatch pull,
we're just pulling it higher, and the
load is considerably less. So,
>> This is one
>> upper body strength. Yeah, and and and
we do higher repetitions. A bit more
hypertrophy, so that's 160. If I was
doing high pulls, 120, 130 max. But
really getting those elbows and more
reps. Yeah, like five reps, four, five.
But every time we're doing pulls, the
goal is a high pull.
Yeah, I'm trying to high pull that.
You're trying to high pull it.
>> a heavy percentage. I'm trying to cuz I
want to mimic what it's going to feel
like when you're coming under. It's just
the load relative to the weight. It's
harder to do that, you know? But I'm
trying.
>> [laughter]
>> All right, come on. Let's go 95 kilos.
25, make the correction.
Patience, extension.
>> [sighs]
>> There we go. Stand that up. Yeah. Look
at THE CAMERA.
EASY.
>> [laughter]
>> EASY. I COULD DO YEAH, I COULD DO 100
today, but That was good. I could do 100
today, but yeah.
>> Yeah.
What What do you mean but? But what?
Making the corrections, you know, she
made a little mistake. Precision, like
you said. She was able to think about
that one thing and then come back and
execute, you know?
>> also as I go Oh, they're not getting
angry when I miss. I only get angry when
I don't have 10 times that. I know how
to fix it. Not missing your deadlift and
taking it
>> Yeah, I don't do that. Yeah, who would
do that? I don't have enough pressure.
THAT'S SO GOOD. THAT'S SO SILLY.
What's this?
>> [laughter]
>> People like that.
Should be ashamed of themselves. Ego
lifts. No, but but yeah, making that
correction and you know, watching it for
the viewers, watching Olympic lifting,
yeah, looks cool. It doesn't look that
hard, right? We're just picking the bar
up and putting it over our head, but it
is so technically, you know, there's so
many technical and positional things
you've got to think about. So, for
Isabel, it was just one thing. What am I
going to do better? I'm just going to
try and punch a bit harder. Made the
correction, she made the lift. If I told
her, "Isabel, stay over the bar. Keep it
closer. Drive your knees out. Pull at
the top. Punch out your wrists. Keep
your wrists flexed back. Drive your
knees out hard like that."
We only have really two cues for me.
>> And and I'm assuming it'd be the same
thing in your coaching, right? Oh, yeah.
Well, with coaching, it's kind of like
when you get to the heavy weight, it's
not like Not much to say.
>> Yeah, less is better. Yeah. It's going
to slow down, but just keep going,
right? But just keep going.
Work harder.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, [__] work
harder. 100%. So, she's going to put 100
kg on now and do some pulls, right? So,
she's going to go three sets of three
for 100. I've got one more set of 160.
And I'm going to do my pause deficit
deadlifts.
I'm so excited.
We're going to do what the strength
coach says. Now I'm excited. That's what
I'm excited about. This stuff here I
don't understand. I look at it and I'm
like
This all looks pretty good to me. You've
done a bit of Olympic lifting, right? I
swear I saw a video of you clean and
I've had a play around with 150 a while
ago. I have. Before?
Um, but I
I'm terrible at it. So, what? I mean,
for not training and putting 150 on,
that's like What part do you find the
hardest? Let me tell you, when I got to
that type of like 150 is my best clean.
Yep. It hurt to catch it. The the catch.
I had multiple attempts to get there.
>> Yeah, yeah, I get you. And it's just
like, oh, getting under it was just
like, this is Yeah, it's painful. Did it
feel natural? Not at all.
You know, to let like my front squat, my
best front squat is pretty heavy. 200
and 60. Did you keep it in a front rack?
We spoke about this last week. Oh, I
can't remember. He did it like that. You
know, like that's like That's so hard.
I'm like, that's a 300. Yeah, that's
crazy.
But for me, I didn't have the mobility.
Um, but either way, when I was doing
those cleans, I had the mobility and and
at that time my best front squat would
have been about 240-ish. Yeah. So, it's
not as if I didn't have the strength to
get there, but I just remember
throwing my body weight underneath there
scared me because of the pain on my on
here catch.
This is a thing too in weightlifting. I
Some people think controversial, but I
think like bench pressing or pressing
movements interferes with our front rack
mobility. If we have too much muscle
mass around our chest, upper pecs like
that. So, it always internally rotates
in. It's going to be really hard for us
to get in that position. So, you look at
most weightlifters, good shoulders,
strong lower back, quadriceps, but we
don't really have any We don't have any
pecs like that. Try it. Yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah. But it's because it's
not an ideal physique for a
weightlifter. I need to have strong
shoulders. Yeah, if I want to get in
that position there, if I have too much
muscle here, it's going to be like that.
So, that's probably why you struggled a
bit with that with the clean, but it's
it's fascinating, right? It's
interesting.
Toes are pointed out. I'm sitting a
little bit deeper. I'm trying to use my
legs more. My shoulders are staying
over. I'm engaging my upper back. I'm
not doing It's just It's really
different. Yeah. So, that's why I do
struggle a little bit with getting those
cues, but I'm excited to to learn both,
for sure.
Pull back more. Pull back. Pull back.
Yes.
100 kg easy.
I'm I'm confident if I put a gun to her
head and said, "Snatch that." She could
definitely do it. Yeah. But again, you
know, she's been lifting long enough.
She knows her capabilities. Just because
you can doesn't mean you should, right?
Yeah. You know, she knows she could do
it. Yeah. Um but yeah.
I want to do some deadlifts, bro. I'm
going to switch bars. How do I Oh, no,
no, no, no, no.
>> because I want you to familiarize
yourself Yeah.
the the bend of the deadlift bar. Would
you use the same one for a female? Like
Yeah, I was just about to ask that.
Yeah, like is it
cuz we have 15s and 20s?
Oh, it's the same. So, it's the Yeah.
It's the same bar. So, we've got another
bar. So, if you do it, you're going to
use different weights, for sure. So,
we'll set up a separate bar. So, I just
done 160. I probably I could probably
start at 140.
>> I'm just trying to think What have you
got in mind?
>> about the plates here. Yeah, yeah, 140
was good Well, I was going to say
I reckon we do it shoes off. I reckon we
go straight to reds because
>> I don't think we'll have enough
blue plates. Yep. So, let's go
everything red. I'm also going to get
you
Yep, just on this.
Oh, so that's our deficit.
>> That's 25 kilos. That is so interesting
cuz for weightlifting
>> Weightlifting is so different.
>> Because we got
>> What's the deficit there? We do a one
one foot on one plate cuz we usually
move our feet. So we do a deficit
snatch, we're not going to be able to
keep our feet on the
>> this is this is one of my favorite tools
cuz it gives you a better illustration
of keeping your bloody hands and your
feet close.
>> Because that was one of the things that
I corrected with you is your stance with
the clean and snatch. So it's out a
little bit, yeah. It's too wide to stand
on that. So here, you've got no choice
but
>> no choice, yeah, or else I'm going to
fall off. That's why one small plate is
nice for me. Unless you're massive. Like
Thor does two plates cuz he's massive.
But his hip width stance is is wider
than that. But you know, for most
people, that's one reason why I like
standing on one plate. Now the the
height of the of this deficit
as we get closer, so this first phase,
you're further away from our goal.
So I'd say
the more specific we get, the closer we
get to the goal. So if we were to do
longer phase, I'd go one phase the thick
deficit. The next phase if we were going
to keep deficit, I'd do like a 10 kilo
plate.
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah.
>> And then the last phase before we peak,
no plate, pure specificity. Wow, okay.
So you you'd Okay, that's so we'd never
do that, hey? It'd just be the same
deficit for the whole Yeah. Interesting.
That is really interesting.
>> get this right.
Before you do your deficit deadlifts
Yep. you're going to get really good at
deficit deadlifts. And people go, "What
carryover does it have to when I start
deadlifting off deadlifting off the
floor?" The answer is none if you don't
practice deadlifting off the floor. It's
a slightly different height, different
skill, right? So this is what I want you
to consider with this the idea of this.
>> Yep. Right? So this is why I'm
introducing it to Kyle specifically, but
it actually applies for many other
reasons as well. But for Kyle
specifically, something he did with his
deadlift is he grabbed it and ripped it
off the floor. So the way that I like to
teach this is
you know, same setup, same setup.
And it's about slowly taking the slack
out of the bar, but teaching you to take
so much slack out of the bar that it
actually lifts. Got it. So, watch this.
It's not as if I'm lifting and then
lifting. I'm going slack out, slack out,
and then stand. Okay. Do you get it? And
I'm pausing.
Yeah.
>> Oh, you want me to pause? Okay.
>> so here's the pause. So, the idea is to
take so much slack out that it
that it lifts off the ground
to the height of this deficit. Got it.
So, what's the height of the deficit?
That's the normal deadlift height. Okay.
So, it's teaching you to have exact
strength exactly off the floor. So,
watch it again. So,
I don't want you to aim for 2 in or
whatever that that height is. I want you
to just as soon as it leaves the floor,
dead stop, right? So, watch again. You
ready? So, so so much slack out that it
just goes slowly, slowly, hold.
>> Pause, hold, and and then stand. Got it.
Okay. Okay.
Okay. Cool.
Beautiful.
Okay.
So, perfect stance. That's good. Arms
with a bit more tension.
Hands close.
So, I want you to practice. So, look at
the line.
I want you to aim closer. Closer to the
Yeah, uh a bit further. I want to see it
like half a about a centimeter. Perfect,
perfect, perfect. That's perfect. So,
the arms are as completely perpendicular
to the ground.
>> Okay. So, armpits to pelvis, head to the
ceiling. Slowly, slowly, slowly guide it
off. Stand.
Perfect. One more. No shrug.
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Armpits to pelvis, head to the ceiling.
Yeah. No shrug. Good. Hands off. Hand
down, hand down. Good.
>> I didn't shrug that one. Yeah. Okay,
I've got to stay down. Exactly. It seems
like it's armpits to floor.
>> Yeah, works for me. Push down. Push
down, push down, push down. Cuz
everything's Yeah. especially after
doing snatch pulls. Yeah. [laughter]
Yeah.
>> We're
this. So basically, you're not lifting
with your arms. Yep. Your arms are
locked. You're lifting with your your
legs and hip extension.
>> Yeah. Right? So driving your legs
through the ground. This is locked. This
is what we're doing. That's locked and
it just goes
Yeah. That's all we're doing. You're not
You're not lifting up. You're pushing
down.
Got it.
Arms reach downwards.
Arms to the ground, head to the ceiling,
armpits.
You know when you do that and you do it,
I just feel like
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh my god, that's so
much relief.
>> I feel that. I feel that. That was just
so easy.
>> When you do that this is just like Yeah.
So much tension unnecessary. Let's take
that out. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay. Good.
So we're going to start
I reckon we go 72 20
>> go 160. Okay. That's it.
There's so much extension at the top.
There's so much
where it's like the complete opposite
here. But in in the in the regards to
lifting as much weight as possible,
which is more optimal? This, right?
>> Totally. Yeah. 160? Yep.
Reach the hands down, head towards the
ceiling, slack out of the bar, stand.
And beautiful and relax.
Good.
Now, the next one, this is a small
little detail. It's just about control.
What a lot of people do, myself as well,
and I try and avoid this, is you go
Yep.
Let's get that bounce off. So you see
what I did how you went boom, boom. And
there's a bit of a dip.
>> happens. You got this. Just slide this.
Slow.
Stand.
>> want that little bounce.
>> No downward movement. No bounce. No
momentum. Just pure smooth control. One
direction. It just goes like this. Up an
inch, stand. You know where I think that
comes from? It's like me wanting to get
momentum from where I'm doing.
>> Absolutely. Like here and just pulling
up feels so hard. But if I'm here and I
kind of go a little bit down and then
back up, it's like it just feels like
>> what we're trying to
>> to me, right?
>> Cuz the thing is with a squat, we use
momentum to come down and then bounce
and come back up. With a deadlift, we we
don't get any
>> There's none, yeah. So that's why a lot
of people like the dynamic start.
>> Yeah. Um and even people like Thor like
rolls the bar in. And a lot of people do
that to build momentum because we don't
get the eccentric before the concentric.
We have to build that tension. That's
the whole idea of taking the slack out
of the bar.
>> Yeah. Taking the slack out of the bar is
another version of the eccentric
portion.
>> Got it. So don't think about momentum,
think about taking the slack out of the
bar. That is your momentum.
>> Yeah. Okay? So that was 160. Slowly,
slowly just to get the technique right.
We'll go to 180.
>> 180? All right. Originally, I just
thought, "You know what? While Izzy is
here, I'm just going to get her to do
the same program as Kyle." But then I
thought about it, it's like I haven't
even seen a conventional deadlift.
>> Yeah. So there's no point chucking on an
accessory if I haven't seen the main
movement first. So whenever I'm working
with someone for the first time, the
conventional deadlift from the standard
height, so this is called 9-in height.
That's the gold standard for me. People
like to have different variations that
they consider the standard. People like
trap bars, people like RDLs as a
regression or whatever it might be. For
me, the gold standard, I want to see how
you perform a conventional deadlift
before we start deciding which direction
to go after that. So for Izzy, she
obviously just did 100-kg snatch pull,
so she's totally warm. I don't need to
start her on 100-kg kilograms because
it's a slightly different technique. So
60 kg really nice start point. And let's
start from scratch. So first things
first, show me how you deadlift. I
haven't deadlifted in years
conventional. Yeah, okay.
Let's see if you at home can pick the
things that I want to talk about with
her.
Two more. It's good. I can't Good. So
Yeah, like
>> [laughter]
>> Okay, relax. So it's strong. So strong.
It's great. That's like Yeah.
The way that I like to say it is it's a
real nice hip hinge. I don't want to
focus on hip hinge here.
>> Yeah. I want to focus on locking your
torso into place. That's a pull. Yeah.
Well, that's what you call your
exercise. That's what I do. Yeah, that's
it.
I want you to focus on the push
component.
Right? So you're losing that. And all
you're doing and the way that I see it
is the position of your spine is nice
and arched, which seems like that's what
we want.
>> Yeah. For weightlifting, probably. It's
a different strategy. A different
bracing strategy. So your bracing
strategy is here. The bracing strategy
that I want you to do for a deadlift is
ribs down.
>> Yeah.
Right? So that does a lot of things with
how we position your spine and how we
stack your spine rather than
arching it. So this is actually weaker
than this.
All right? The reason why you do this in
weightlifting is so that you can get in
the the right position to catch your
clean, to catch your snatch, and to
stand up with it. I don't want you to
stand up with it or over your head. I
want you to stand up with it down here.
Right? So here's a few things that we
change immediately.
Stance. You can go touch closer. See?
Yeah, that's a touch. It wasn't so bad.
Like with Kyle, he had slightly wider
stance, which isn't bad. It's just it's
it's weightlifting versus deadlifting.
So yours was a little bit narrower, so I
don't mind that. But then the next thing
was your grip was quite wide on the
outside of that. I don't need that. I
would prefer your arms to be as as
perpendicular to the ground as possible.
So walk up to the bar with your shins
about an inch away. Bring your feet in
just a little bit closer. Good, that's
perfect stance. Um stand back just a
little bit. Good, perfect. Now, I want
you to grab the bar where the line is.
Yeah, nice. So the arms are down. Now,
what I want you to do, actually I need
you to get rid of the straps for this.
Yeah, because to set up the straps, you
have to set up with your ass in the air.
You're already here and I need to I need
to get that cue out of you. I need you
here. So to get there, I need you start
from the top and and get the brace from
the top so that we can then grab the
bar. So from here, how would you brace
your abs to get punched in the guts,
right? So so it's ribs down, right? So
that's the first part. Now from here
I want you to bend the knees until you
grab the bar. Perfect. Now, okay, you've
gone to that arch again. There we go.
Now
I want you eyes about 3 m on the floor
in front of you. So look at my foot.
Keep Keep that there. Now, the cue is
armpits to pelvis. So pull the bar into
your hips. Yeah. Now head to the ceiling
and okay
and push.
I This is the problem with a million
cues, right? So armpits
Keep them down. One more. One more.
So we've got that big arch again.
So think about ribs down.
>> Yeah. Good. And armpits There we go. One
more. One more. One more.
Real nice.
>> I see it.
>> Good. I can actually see it. Yeah.
>> Good. So So we're going to come back to
that. We're not going to go heavier. So
you're just going to think of those
things. We'll come back and do another
set. Carl, you do yours. It actually is
really good seeing someone who does the
same sport.
>> Because the thing is it's like when I
talk to you, you're like, "Okay, I'm
trying to figure that out." But then
when I show it on someone else, you're
like, "Oh,
right."
>> I'm looking at her doing what I'm doing.
I'm like, "No, no." And then when she
gets it right, I see how different it
is.
>> to tell her to stop.
>> Yeah, yeah. Did you hear me? I'm like,
"Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah." I'm
like, "DO IT PROPERLY." YEAH. Who would
have thought? Yeah. Okay, one rep here.
One rep here. So reach your hands down.
Reach your head to the ceiling.
Armpits 1 in off the ground.
Smooth. Smooth. Stand. Beautiful. And
relax. Nice.
Yep. Good. Good.
See, I'm a pro, Isabelle. Now.
Now. So I reckon yeah, 200 is good.
>> All right.
So let's take off a Yeah.
He doesn't like green plates, hey, Carl?
He doesn't like the green plates.
What's your beef with the They bother
me. What's your beef with the greens?
They bother me. I don't like seeing my
weight.
They bother Mostyn as well. He paints
them gray. Oh, do they color-wise?
>> They just don't suit. They just don't
suit.
They don't suit what we're trying
>> to do here? I'm going to snatch 144
greens next week.
>> [laughter]
>> That's crazy.
So, here's a few things. So, cues that I
just introduced to Izzy, that's the
first time that she's hearing it. So,
it's like, of course.
People say this is a good cue or is a
bad cue. Nothing's good unless the
lifter understands what you're damn well
saying, right? So, I say reach the crown
of the head to the ceiling, and she did
what most people do is do that. Now,
what I want is not that. I said the
crown of the head's kind of back here.
So, act as though So, chin down. Chin
down. Pull that towards the top of the
ceiling. So, what it does, it's not head
up here, it's kind of like it elongates,
it stretches your thoracic spine. So,
elongates your upper back, right? So,
when you're down here, that's why I say
look at a spot about 3 m on the floor in
front, and then that's crown of the head
to the ceiling, okay?
So, that's one thing that I want you to
do. The next thing that you're doing is
not taking the slack out, which is
exactly why we're doing this exercise.
So, you're ripping off the ground like
you would in a snatch and clean and
jerk, right? So, you're going boom. I
want you to go stretch. Here's the
feeling that I want you to have.
Stretch. There, your arms are hanging.
Okay? You're not using your arms to pick
up the weight. They're just hanging.
It's like it's a piece of rope that's
attached to your hands.
>> shoulders down to the floor? Reach down.
There we go. That's It's the opposite of
a shrug. Yes, exactly opposite of a
shrug. So, here's the fact of it. If
you're shrugging, your lats are off.
>> Yeah.
You get it?
>> Yeah. So, reach down.
>> that and then go down.
>> Yeah, here's the cues. Crown of head to
the ceiling, you know what that means
now. So, that's chin down and and reach
the top of the head to the ceiling. The
next thing is reach down.
Yeah.
The next cue that I use is armpits
towards the pelvis. So, that's kind of
like another way of saying that is pull
the bar towards your body.
Right, that keeps That's a lat action,
okay? Good. So, let's do this again.
So,
stance hip width,
arms on the outside of that, reaching
down, reaching down.
Good. Look at my foot, 3 m on the floor
in front. Good. Pull the bar into your
body. No shrug.
Okay. Now, this is where don't explode
when you stand. Just stand like you're
standing out of a chair. Stand.
And
smooth. Reach down. Reach down. Reach
down. One more. Reach down. No shrug.
Reach down. There we go.
One more. One more.
There we go. Good. And relax.
Good.
Yeah, all of them are lots. Good. Yeah.
You're feeling it in the right spot.
Okay. You're going to do 320 with that
belt. All right. Done. Let's do it.
>> Good. All right. You'll be all right.
No, I got a shitty $30 Harbinger belt
from Rebel.
>> [snorts]
>> But I like that. For the deadlift, it's
a it's a looser belt than a squat. Yeah.
So, if we had a a squat session and
we're trying to get you a 300 kilo
squat, I'd probably insist on a thicker
belt.
>> Okay. Yeah. But for a deadlift, it gets
in the way a lot of the time.
>> Yeah. All right.
So, I I quite like that for a deadlift.
Sure. This is a top set. So, the idea is
this is I don't know what percentage 200
It's 66% is what it is of his max,
right? So, it's super super
>> This is crazy. This is heavy.
Yeah. Okay. Uh one rep
>> Two reps. Two reps. Okay. So, all this
is now is smooth, right?
Reach down. Head to ceiling. 1 in off
the ground.
Smooth.
Slow.
Stand.
Good. One more.
Armpits.
1 in.
Stand.
Good. And relax.
Good. Now, that second rep was a little
bit of a rip off the ground again. It
was like I got to slow it down. So,
everything is just I just want it just
to be
like you're coming in and robbing my
house. You don't want me to hear a
thing, [laughter] right? Everything is I
don't want to hear any jerking stuff,
right? I don't want to hear you. That's
it. You Imagine that. I'm fast asleep.
You can't wake me up. So, it's like
this.
Yeah. Okay. That makes sense.
>> All right.
>> That first one's okay, though? First one
was brilliant. Now, one small detail
that matters from now, and it was
apparent with your 300. So, your 300 is
a very slightly soft lock out of the
knees. All right? So, that's not a huge
emphasis with weightlifting, it doesn't
really matter. But, with powerlifting,
you need boom, lock the knees hard
before we push the hips through. Now,
when the knees are soft, this is what
you do.
All right? So, and when you're doing a
heavy weight, that turns into a hitch.
So, you go like this.
That's a That's a hitch. You're sliding
up your body. And technically, that'd
get red-lighted in a powerlifting
competition. Yeah. It's like the silly
rules with the lockouts and the press
outs with a snatch. I look at that, I'm
like, "How the hell did that get taken
off the weightlifter?" But, you'd
probably be able to identify.
You know what I mean? But, I can't
identify cuz it's not what I'm looking
for. It's like, "That got red-lighted or
whatever it is." Same with powerlifting.
What I want is lock the knees, then push
the hips through. It's a sequence.
So, knees hard, then hips. Boom. Yeah.
Knees, hips. There we go.
Yeah. So, when you're locked out at the
top,
if we rewind the video, you'll see it. I
want to see your quads
because I can't because you're so damn
jacked. I can see the vastus medialis
and the vascularity of that just [__]
staring at me. It wasn't staring at me
with the It's staring at me. That's what
I want to see.
All right? That's what I want to see.
So, let me let me know.
>> Okay. I want to see those quad muscles
just on, locking that knee joint out.
Let me pull these up for you, then.
>> Okay, good. [laughter]
Good.
You know, warming up and introducing you
to a technique, I like just gradual
jumps, so you don't even feel a
difference, right? So, let's have a
look. So, walk up to the bar with your
stance hip width, shins about an inch
away, arms straight down.
Let's go.
Eyes on my foot. Pull the bar You just
ripped it off the ground again. Now, let
go. Let go. Let go. Now, you need to
think about this. Because you didn't
think about it, you just went autopilot.
Unfortunately for now while we're
learning, we need to think. By the time
we get to 8 weeks down the track,
there's no thinking. Yeah. Right now we
have to think. That's why we think on
the light weights. No thinking on the
heavy weights, okay? So, what are we
thinking about? I'm fast asleep, and
you're not allowed to wake me. I don't
want to hear that thing come off the
ground. So, watch me. Slowly, slack out.
>> [sighs]
>> All right.
Let's go. Reach down.
Slack out.
>> [sighs]
>> Nice. She did one thing wrong. What was
it? Where were you looking? In love?
Look at my foot. Thank you. Good.
Very nice. One more. Up it.
No shot. One more. Keep the traps down.
Yes.
Nailed it. Easy.
I'm a coach, too. Excuse me.
Good. Fist bump after every set. Okay.
Well, I see the set that you did it
right. Yeah.
Okay. That cue works for me. Robbing the
house. How's that? That cue works for
me. Don't make noise.
>> [laughter]
>> Good. So, the rule is if I If you do
something wrong, I don't fist bump you.
I just walk away just like that. Ah,
okay. That means I'm having a suck in
the corner.
It means I got really upset. So, you
know, this isn't a matter of she goes,
he goes, she goes because he's just done
his working sets. And what are the rules
with rest periods of powerlifting
compared to weightlifting? I want a
complete recovery. They don't get that
in weightlifting. They have to learn how
to go set, set, set, set. With
weightlifting, with powerlifting, I want
performance on every set. I don't want a
decline in energy. I want you to get all
of your energy back because I want that
set to be
completely recovered every set. So,
right now it's uh it's Izzy's go again.
When I
bought my own gym, that was the first
time we had 25s. Before that, I was a
gym bro, and it was only one plate
equals a 20 kilo.
So, then when I came to the red plates,
it's like, "Oh, the numbers are just
going against my chi." Just everything
about this was against my grain. So,
then I started going, "Okay, we got two
ways of doing it. Like a bro, which is
one plate equals 20 kg. You know, 200 kg
is four and a half plates.
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Or or we go comp
style. What's comp style? 200 kg is
three reds, a green, and two and a half
and a clip.
>> we go bro style.
Well, depends.
>> [laughter]
>> If it's really official. If you came in
here to do a 200 kg snatch for the first
time, I'd probably say three reds, a
green, and two and a half and a clip.
>> Oh, really? On the illegal That's what I
would probably say. Yeah, I want to see
it official, official, official. How are
you with your hook grip? Is it I'm fine.
But I could do go mixed grip.
Okay, so for your best deadlift, I know
you've done a 180 in your history. Yeah.
How'd you do that? Straps? No. Oh, you
did a mixed grip?
>> Mixed grip.
My best clean deadlift hook grip is 170.
Let's do Let's do hook grip.
>> Just keep doing it like we were doing
it.
>> Hell yeah. I think a hook grip is
stronger if you know how to do it.
>> Yeah.
Okay, so now, remember, I'm fast asleep
right here. You can't wake me up. No
sudden movements. Okay, reaching down,
hook grip, armpits, armpits, uh eyes on
my foot, slack out.
Uh one more you hit snatch you shrugged
a bit. Armpits.
Good. Relax.
Okay, now I say relax, but I want you to
stay here cuz I got another cue for you.
What you're doing is you're going you
you you got pick up, drop.
And then you're picking it up from where
you dropped it. Yeah. You need to reset
it and then stand because your hips are
too high now. And that's like an RDL.
All right. I don't want It's not a full
deadlift.
>> of the knee at the start.
>> So reset. So when you drop it, I like to
drop it with the head down and and hips
back so that your legs are out of the
way. But then you need to bend the knees
again and and reset and go.
So you It's It's drop, reset, drive.
Drop, reset, drive. Okay? Give me two
reps, slow.
Slow with the setup, purposeful with
pulling off the ground. So armpits to
pelvis.
Thank you for changing your eye
position.
Armpits, sit. Ah, nice. Very good. And
relax.
Good. So, in between just reset the
hips. Parallel head to the ceiling.
Every time you're doing it, you're
looking straight ahead. We're going to
stop doing that. Look down slightly. So,
from here
slack out. It's like this, right? So,
we're just going We're exaggerating how
we take the slack out by going
Dead stop. Stand. Boom.
Lock hip. So, knees hips knees hips. Pop
pop knees hips. Again.
I want to see this last set as the
perfection of perfection.
Right? You master this.
This is where 320 is just going to be
equally as easy or difficult as that
300. We know what to do now.
Get the quads out.
Armpits, slack.
Stop. Relax. Set. Reset. Stop. Let go.
Let go. Let go. Let go. Let go.
We didn't get that pause in. Ah, [__]
Okay. [laughter]
So, we're going to start again. Give
yourself a minute. Give yourself a
minute. No, I asked for this last set to
be the perfect set, you know what I
mean? You came in and it was like,
"What?" Concentrating so hard on the
perfect deadlift that we forgot the
pause.
>> [laughter]
>> No, that's all good, bro. All right.
Love the rest period, Carl, man. Yeah,
you know there's big rest. Yeah. All
right, let's go. Armpits 1 in off the
ground.
Slack out. Slack out.
Perfection. Yes, perfection.
Sit. Armpits. Pause.
Good. And relax. Good.
You are good. Wake you up.
>> [laughter]
>> Is that all right? Good. Yeah. Good. ALL
RIGHT. WHAT?
>> [laughter]
>> SO, HOW'S THAT?
THAT'S REAL.
LIKE, I feel like a bit of a disservice
to Carl because that was so easy. Three
sets of 200 kg at 66%.
230 230
>> [clears throat]
[laughter]
>> You probably could.
Why don't we
Why don't we do that? You're the coach.
Why don't we do that?
Why don't we just do a single on 220?
Okay. Okay, so I just want to gradually
introduce you to perfect technique on a
gradually heavier weight.
>> Yeah. 220 is not enough to fatigue him
for his next session. So it's not being
irresponsible. Yeah. Isabelle Lorenzi
Before you go in, let's think strategy
here, okay? So you're not going to
autopilot anything. Yeah. Okay? So what
we're doing is stance, arms straight
down,
eyes on my foot, not straight at me,
eyes on my foot.
>> Yeah.
And then we go like that. Armpits to
pelvis, slack out. So slack out and
stand, no pausing. Okay, shins an inch
away, hip-width stance, arms straight
down and reaching down.
Armpits, sit, sit, bend those knees.
Armpits.
And relax. Yeah, let go, let go. No, no,
no.
Step.
Singles.
Oh.
It was a he you came in with a hinge
thing again. Oh.
Okay, so you're here and it's and it's
here. It's a big RDL.
>> Yeah. You're using hammies. Yeah. You
got very strong quadriceps. I know you
do. I want you to use them. So how do we
use them? By bending the knees.
>> Okay. Bend the knees, get that brace
happening. Good. Just a single. Make
sure you rest in the hole.
All right. Now, ribs down.
Good.
Bend the knees, bend the knees, bend the
knees.
Arms long. Good.
And relax.
And relax. How's that done?
This bump for you, mate. How was that
like a dynamic start? Yeah, it's a fist
bump for now. THAT'S WHAT IT IS. OH.
YEAH. YEAH, I was like was that Well,
can I dynamic start like that?
>> a part of the plan though? It's fine.
Well, I'm kind of telling her that's
when I said reset, she her reset meant
dynamic start and go. It's like, "Okay,
cool. I'm I'm content with that."
Dynamic start's not wrong. It's not
wrong. It's just different to what I'm
asking you to do. These big rapid
movements is what I want to kind of like
just just take out of you for now
because I want you to I want you to
teach you the slowness of this. So, what
I am going to do is get you to do So,
let's strip it to 100 or even less.
Even less. Let's
60.
And we'll just keep it all
color coded. Let's do this. So, now we
got to take the dynamic stuff, the the
speed stuff, all of that out of you and
I got to teach you to be controlled and
smooth. And then, once we nail that, so
you it's like I'm not teaching you to be
slow. I'm teaching you to be controlled
and precise. We learn technique and
precision and then we add speed. Yeah.
Okay, so by the time we get to, you
know, our end goal, which in my head
around about to 200 kg, deadly for you,
I'm going to be sitting there going,
"You [__] rip this off the ground."
>> Yeah. You know what I mean? I'm not
going to say slow then. I'm not going to
say don't wake me up then. I'll say,
"You [__] don't you stop."
Do you know what I mean? But for now,
it's like we learn slow, then we add
speed.
Why are you laughing at me? I just I
love you, okay? I'm doing dead this
thing up. See, exactly what Carl's
doing. So, we're doing slowly off the
ground. Let's see how you go first go.
Bend the arms, armpits. Bend those knees
more. Bend those knees more.
Stretch the arms, 1 in off the ground.
Stand. Good. And again, no shrug.
1 in off the ground.
No shrug. Good. Don't explode up. One
more. One more. Smooth. Hang down. Hang
down. Hang down. Hang down. Good. Hang
down. Hang down. Good. And relax.
Yeah. Good. Good. It's a process. Look
up. It's very different to how I start
in my weight lifting. For sure. So, you
can do it. not weightlifting.
Yep.
That's right.
>> [laughter]
>> We're deadlifting.
Smooth.
That's how we do it. Yeah, bro. Leave it
there. Leave it there.
Okay.
>> Woohoo! Save the best till last.
>> Thank you. Lovely. Thank you. Lovely.
Okay.
>> good. So, 220. So, this is what I like
about this. That gives us the confidence
to say, "Next week, I reckon we can
start with 220." Okay. Yeah. And we'll
do like three by two on 220. And then we
see how that goes, and then we get the
logical progressions. I gave him a small
goal of hitting 260 for a pause after
this first four-week block. So, 260 for
a pause like that,
that's kind of like saying, "All right,
cool. We've got the hang of this slowing
down and smooth technique before we then
add speed to the equation." Yeah. So,
let's go back to Izzy. We use volume for
usually like hypertrophy phases.
And
these guys have been doing years of
accumulation. So, they've done plenty of
volume. So, it's not about I don't need
to get these guys more muscular. They've
got plenty of muscle.
And they've got plenty of strength. So,
it's like they've just done a hot like
they've built so pyramid will only peak
as high as the base is wide. These guys
have come to me
for their first deadlift sessions with a
deadlift base so damn wide like I don't
need to work on all those physical
qualities, right? So, the idea of low
volume is minimize the hell out of
fatigue.
And with a technique like this, there's
a lot that they're thinking about. Even
though it's far less technical than a
snatch, you probably don't even think
about snatch. I find this so much more
technical. Totally. Yeah. Well, you're
thinking with your snatch, "Punch up."
You can't. Teach me to snatch. You're
not going to say, "Hey, punch up, bro."
You're going to say, "Here's a [__]
shopping list, idiot."
>> [laughter]
>> Right? Brilliant. This is so much
harder. This is hard. Yeah, this is so
much harder. My brain hurts. So, the low
reps is because your brain hurts.
Because if I say 10 reps, it's like,
"For [__] sake, it's just fatigue."
Okay.
Now, reach down. Bend those knees. Bend
those knees. Stretch.
1 in.
Beautiful. One more. One more. 1 in.
Ha! [sighs] Real nice.
Yeah! Fist bump? Yeah! Yes! Let's see.
Did you get a fist bump? I like that.
So, I get a fist bump? I love [laughter]
that.
Please tell me that's fist bump-worthy.
Okay. That was really nice. Now, it's
not perfect. It's still, like, in terms
of what we're trying to achieve out of
today, you're still just explosive
athlete. You know what I mean? It's just
like, don't don't Right? So, just smooth
smooth. Don't wake me up.
Okay. We'll get to 100.
We'll do 100.
Last set. Hang on a second. What are you
going to do? Why don't you tell me what
you're going to do first? What are the
things you're thinking about?
>> I'm going to pull my arms down. I'm
going to look 3 m in front with the
crown of my head slightly up, and I'm
not going to make any noise. Okay. Love
that. Now, the biggest thing for you is
is I want you to squat more and hinge
less. So, more quads, less hammies. How
do you do that?
>> Bend my knees.
Bend your knees.
>> to squat at the top bottom.
Now, all right. I'm just going to just
confuse you a little bit. Something that
a lot of people do when they bend their
knees is you go
See what you did with your shoulders?
When When you're bending your knees,
you're bending you're coming you're
bringing your whole body down. Keep that
long and just my knees bent. Keep that
long and and bend your knees. So, I
don't want to see you like don't retract
your scaps. So, keep that reaching down
and then just bend the knees more. So, I
want your torso angle to be more
vertical.
There we go.
Beautiful. Big lock out of the knee
first.
>> [sighs]
>> Nice. Last rep.
Nice.
Yeah, very very good technique. Very
good technique. That's a really
beautiful start point for both of them.
You know, I thought it was going to we
weren't even going to get to that with
you because I thought I need to see a
conventional deadlift first. But we're
able to you know, it's just such a quick
little adding three sets for these guys.
For me, I take 10 minutes rest between
sets. So for me, three sets is another
half an hour onto the program. With
these guys, it was like oh, that feels a
bit anticlimactic. It's like we're not
done [laughter] yet. That was that was
like that was like eight minutes for the
whole session for the
for my component anyway. But anyway,
that's really cool. For me, I feel like
we've we've ticked off that part of my
objective which was to slow them down.
It sounds really dumb. I don't want them
to be slow. I want them to be smooth. So
we learn slow, we learn smooth, we learn
precise, and then we add speed. Like I
said, when these guys are going to go
for their big lifts, I'm not going to
sit here and say control this and head
up and then I'm going to [__] say
Listen here, [__]
Don't you [__] stop balling.
[__] yeah.
I know you'll hate me, but do we have a
prediction with the program this time?
No, I don't hate you for that at all. I
love you for that because this is
[__] gold. It's you know, like a lot
of people there's a lot of ideas with
you know, why weightlifters train this
way and why powerlifters train that way.
And I think a deadlift is an exercise
yes, absolutely. There's certain things
that I think a weightlifter should stick
to and and keep away from which is the
fatigue components of these heavy lifts.
But if you were to introduce it, I think
there is a smart way of doing it which
is exactly what we're doing. What Kyle
just did was 66% of his deadlift max.
That is not fatiguing.
If anything, it's stimulating. And I
think that these new little things may
even I don't know. I'd like to hear what
you have to say with your your
weightlifting movements. If it's like
yeah, you know, maybe you'll come in and
go you know what like a few of those
things like I'm I'm learning to be
slower off this. I don't even know. Like
hopefully, you come back and say, "You
know what? It's It's helped my
weightlifting."
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's my intention is
to introduce this in a way that it not
only doesn't hurt your weightlifting,
but you come back and you go, "You know
what? I reckon that I'm stronger than
>> take something out of this, you know.
>> So, it's like, you know, I've got a
quiet goal. Don't tell Kyle I said this,
but I'd love for him to come in and
deadlift
320 and then and then snatch 170
in a similar time frame. So, his best
snatch is 165 kg, and I think and that's
my objective is to do this in a way
where not only does it interfere with
his
weightlifting, but it improves on it.
So, watch this space. I'm going to try
and twist their arm to get in here more
often
>> [laughter]
>> and and continue doing this this whole
deadlift program, which you guys now
have Kyle's kind of his layout of his
weightlifting program. Um is he do do
the same? Yeah, we follow the basically
the same thing. So, guys and girls, it
works for all of us, right? So, this is
not gender-specific, right?
So, if you want to be like high-level
weightlifting, that 9-day program that
we gave you is sick. Now, at the end of
this 8-to-12-week phase, we are going to
do a collaborated effort and give you a
static lift component to add into your
weightlifting program to get strong at
everything.
What do you reckon? All right, so where
do we find you?
Instagram, YouTube, TikTok, calbru89.
That's it. Where do we find you?
>> Instagram, izzy.lorenzi_,
TikTok.
That's it. izzy.lorenzi, calbru89.
>> We'll We'll write it down in the section
below. If there's anything you want to
see from these guys, comment.
>> such as a low bar squat.
Low bar squat. Ooh, 200 kilo low bar
squat?
Can you imagine?
Put it in the comment section, and we're
going to bring it to you. Hope you
enjoyed that session. See you guys next
time.